Gossipsub v1.1 Blog post (#415)
ipfs/blog: content/post/094-gossipsub-v1.1.md

---

> date: 2020-05-19
> url: 2020-05-19-gossipsub-v1.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2020-05-20
url: 2020-05-20-gossipsub-v1.1
```

title: Gossipsub v1.1 brings hardening extensions to PubSub 
author: David Dias
header_image: 094-gossipsub-v1.1-headerimage.jpeg
tags: ipfs, libp2p, pubsub, gossipsub
---

<p align="center">

>   <img width="60%" src="/header_images/094-gossipsub-v1.1-headerimage+grid.jpeg">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img src="/header_images/094-gossipsub-v1.1-headerimage+grid.jpeg" style="max-width:600px">
```

## 🔍 What is Gossipsub v1.1

The main focus for Gossipsub v1.1 is **security**. In addition to the speedy message propagation guarantees from v1.0, this new version features several hardening extensions that make Gossipsub more resilient to a wide range of attacks. Some highlights include:

**1) [Peer scoring](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#peer-scoring)**: peers now monitor their directly connected neighbours using a score function that reflects the peer’s usefulness. Well-behaving peers are kept in the mesh, while badly-behaving ones are dropped in order to protect the network from malicious actors.

**2) [Adaptive gossip dissemination](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#adaptive-gossip-dissemination)**: In this new version, you can adjust the `gossip factor` to control the number of peers your node gossips with. This enables you to increase/decrease the amount of gossip, while keeping a baseline.

> **3) [Opportunistic Grafting](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#opportunistic-grafting)**: Grafting is a new mechanism used to cherry pick well-behaving peers that are currently not part of a node’s mesh. Those well-behaving peers are then opportunistically inserted into the mesh to improve the median score of participating peers. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**3) [Opportunistic Grafting](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#opportunistic-grafting)**: Opportunistic Grafting is a new mechanism used to cherry pick well-behaving peers that are currently not part of a node’s mesh. Those well-behaving peers are then opportunistically inserted into the mesh to improve the median score of participating peers. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
**3) [Opportunistic Grafting](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#opportunistic-grafting)**: A new mechanism used to cherry pick well-behaving peers that are currently not part of a node’s mesh. Those well-behaving peers are then opportunistically inserted into the mesh to improve the median score of participating peers. 
```

> **4) [Prune Peer eXchange](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#prune-backoff-and-peer-exchange)**: Prune Peer exchange gives a node a set of recommended peers to connect when it gets dropped from another peer’s mesh, helping reduce the dependency on ambient peer discovery mechanisms.

Reviewer 3: we also have to mention the backoff I think

Author: Folks can always read the spec. For this blog post, our goal is to have something that works as a highlights/gist, so that folks can feel they grok it but also know where to look for more details (i.e. the spec) when they decide to.

All of these upgrades can be consulted in the [Gossipsub v1.1 specification](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/README.md), which if you ask us, it is a joy to read!

Additionally, with the new release, the [reference implementation of Gossipsub](https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-pubsub) got additional documentation and test coverage.
 
## 🏎 Give Gossipsub v1.1 a test ride

### Chat application example

We’ve prepared a brand new example for you to give the latest Gossipsub a try. In this example, you get to experiment with a Chat application powered by libp2p. It will enable you to join different channels by subscribing to PubSub topics and seeing other peers joining the room as they subscribe to the topic.

<p align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/master/pubsub/chat/chat-example.gif">
</p>

You can find the code for this example at https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/tree/master/pubsub/chat

### Mockchain example

> TODO write this

Author: @yusefnapora, were you able to make progress on this or not quite? Should we remove it from this launch?

Reviewer 4: I don't think I'll be able to finish it before launch 😞

Author: All good. I've removed it :)

### Test Gossipsub’s performance with Testground

We are also releasing a brand new libp2p Test Plan that uses Testground to benchmark Gossipsub v1.1.

<p align="center">
  <img width="60%" src="/header_images/094-gossipsub-v1.1-headerimage.jpeg">
</p>

> TODO INSERT IMAGE HERE of the JUPYTER NOTEBOOK

Author: @yusefnapora do you happen to have a nice screenshot (gift would be 1000x better) of what looks like to run the baseline test plan ? https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/tree/master/pubsub

> We’ve prepared a brand new example for you to give the latest Gossipsub a try. In this example, you get to experiment with a chat application powered by libp2p. It will enable you to join different channels by subscribing to PubSub topics and seeing other peers joining the room as they subscribe to the topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’ve prepared a brand new example for you to give the latest Gossipsub a try. In this example, you get to experiment with a chat application powered by libp2p. It will enable you to join different channels by subscribing to PubSub topics and see other peers joining the room as they subscribe to the topic.
```

>   <img width="60%" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/master/pubsub/chat/chat-example.gif">

Author: ```suggestion
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/master/pubsub/chat/chat-example.gif" style="max-width:600px">
```

>   <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/master/pubsub/chat/chat-example.gif" style="max-width:640px">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <a href="https://github.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/tree/master/pubsub/chat"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/libp2p/go-libp2p-examples/master/pubsub/chat/chat-example.gif" style="width:100%"></a>
```
This is currently too small to be readable. Trying to make this larger.

> </p>

Author: @yusefnapora is preparing a gif to replace this illustration.

>   <img width="60%" src="/img/gossipsubv1.1-jupyter.gif">

Author: ```suggestion
  <img src="/img/gossipsubv1.1-jupyter.gif" style="max-width:600px">
```

Reviewer 2: 600px might not be the right size for all of these but play around and see what looks best 👀

>   <img src="/img/gossipsubv1.1-jupyter.gif" style="max-width:640px">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <a href="https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/tree/master/pubsub"><img src="/img/gossipsubv1.1-jupyter.gif" style="width:100%"></a>
```

- The number of nodes
- The latency of each link and the jitter %
- The length of the run
- The bandwidth available to each link

To play with this Test Plan, check the instructions at https://github.com/libp2p/test-plans/tree/master/pubsub. 

## 🎁 We are preparing something more for you

We’ve worked with networking, P2P, and security researchers to create this iteration of Gossipsub v1.1 and we’ve been cooking a comprehensive analysis report to share with you on our approach and how we evaluated our mitigation strategies. We are shooting to share this report in June, stay tuned!

That’s it for now. Hope you enjoy the release and happy gossiping!

> The Gossipsub Task Force
> 
> David Dias, Dmitris Vyzovitis, Yiannis Psaras, Yusef Napora, Dirk McCormick

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The Gossipsub Task Force** - David Dias, Dmitris Vyzovitis, Yiannis Psaras, Yusef Napora, Dirk McCormick
```

</p>

The gossip you’ve heard on the streets is correct, Gossipsub v1.1 is here and it packs several security hardening extensions - along with new testing, documentation, and an updated specification.

The Gossipsub Task Force has been hard at work exploring and analyzing various attack vectors on public and permissionless messaging networks. With that knowledge, we’ve crafted and iterated on mitigating strategies to make our beloved libp2p PubSub Router work in adversarial environments. The result is Gossipsub v1.1 🚀

## 🔍 What is Gossipsub v1.1

The main focus for Gossipsub v1.1 is **security**. In addition to the speedy message propagation guarantees from v1.0, this new version features several hardening extensions that make Gossipsub more resilient to a wide range of attacks. Some highlights include:

1) [Peer scoring](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#peer-scoring): peers now monitor their directly connected neighbours using a score function that reflects the peer’s usefulness. Well-behaving peers are kept in the mesh, while badly-behaving ones are dropped in order to protect the network from malicious actors.

> 2) [Adaptive gossip dissemination](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#adaptive-gossip-dissemination): In this new version, you can adjust the amount of peers in which your node gossips to with the gossip factor. This enables you to increase/decrease the amount of gossip, while keeping a baseline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) [Adaptive gossip dissemination](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#adaptive-gossip-dissemination): In this new version, you can adjust the `gossip factor` to control the number of peers your node gossips with. This enables you to increase/decrease the amount of gossip, while keeping a baseline.
```
what do you mean by "amount of gossip"? That isn't clear to me? Number of nodes I peer with? number of intermediate hops my message will propogate?

Author: In Gossipsub v1.0, you always sent Gossip to a fixed amount of peers, in v1.1, you can adjust that with a factor, increasing/decreasing the number of peers that you send the gossipsub to.

> 3) [Opportunistic Grafting](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#opportunistic-grafting): A new mechanism used to cherry pick well-behaving peers that are currently not part of a node’s mesh. Those well-behaving peers are then opportunistically grafted to improve the mesh’s health in terms of median score of participating peers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) [Opportunistic Grafting](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#opportunistic-grafting): Grafting is a new mechanism used to cherry pick well-behaving peers that are currently not part of a node’s mesh. Those well-behaving peers are then opportunistically inserted into the mesh to improve the median score of participating peers. 
```
Shouldn't use "grafting" to explain what grafting is. Assume it's inserting them into the mesh? maybe "connected" is a better word?

> 4) [Prune Peer eXchange](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#prune-backoff-and-peer-exchange): with Prune Peer exchange a node receives a set of recommended peers to connect when it gets dropped from some other peer’s mesh. With this, we’ve reduced the dependency on ambient peer discovery mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) [Prune Peer eXchange](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/pubsub/gossipsub/gossipsub-v1.1.md#prune-backoff-and-peer-exchange): Prune Peer exchange gives a node a set of recommended peers to connect when it gets dropped from another peer’s mesh, helping reduce the dependency on ambient peer discovery mechanisms.
```
